Introduction to the Meditations of Marcus Aurelius by Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, translated
by George Long.
Introduction Marcus Arnius Verus was born in Rome in AD
121 and assumed the name of Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, by which he is known to history
on his adoption by the Emperor T. Aurelius Antoninus.
He succeeded to the imperial throne in 161 and ruled till his death in 180.
His reign, though marked by justice and moderation at home, was troubled by constant warfare
on the frontiers of the empire, and Aurelius spent much of his later years in the uncongenial
task of commanding armies that no longer proved irresistible against the barbarian
hordes.
Marcus Aurelius was educated by the orator Fronto, but turned aside from rhetoric to
study of the Stoic philosophy, of which he was the last distinguished representative.
The meditations, which he wrote in Greek, are among the most noteworthy expressions
of this system and exhibit it favourably on its practical side.
His own precepts he carried out with singular consistency, and both in his public and his
private life he was in the highest degree conscientious.
He and his predecessor are noted as the only Roman emperors who can be said to have ruled
with a single eye to the welfare of their subjects.
During his reign, Rome was visited by severe pestilence, and this, with reverses suffered
by his armies, threw the populace into a panic and led them to demand the sacrifice of the
Christians whom they regarded as having brought down the anger of the gods.
Aurelius seems to have shared the panic, and his record is stained by his sanction of the
cruel persecution.
This incident in the career of the last and one of the loftiest of the pagan moralists
may be regarded as symbolic of the dying effort of heathenism to check the advancing tide
of Christianity.
The meditations picture with faithfulness the mind and character of this noblest of
the emperors.
Simple in style and sincere in tone, they record for all time the height reached by
pagan aspirations in its effort to solve the problem of conduct, and the essential agreement
of his practice with his teaching proved that even in a palace life may be led well.